From Hello world to Framework
=============================

A simple "Hello World!" is rather boring. Let's change that to greet the someone, instead. We'll get the name from the queryparameter part of the URL. Our URL will look something like

	http://localhost/fhwtf/step0002/index.php?name=john

To get the name parameter from the URL use

	$name = $_GET['name'];

## RFC

[RFC 3986](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986) defines the resource locators and is worth reading. I'd suggest reading it after you're comfortable eough in PHP.

For now we'll concentrate on the parts of the http-Schema, that are most relevant, when talking about URLs.

*Again this only covers the most important bits and ommits a few things.*

	schema://doma.in/my/path?queryparam1=1&queryparam2=2

So a URL is defined by a schema, domain, path and a query. The query passes two parameter `queryparam1` and `queryparam2` and is seperated from the path by the `?`-Symbol. Multiple Parameters are attached via `&`.


## A word on ?>

With the closing scripttag `?>` you indicate the end of your PHP code. If your file ends with PHP code (because it only contains PHP code) you can ommit the closing scripttag and PHP will implicitly assume add it at the end of the file. This is very convenient, but discouraged by a (very) few people.

Adding the closing scripttag on the other hand requires more diligence from the developer. Everything after the closing tag is interpreted as HTML, including whitespace. Which can lead to inexplicable whitespace in your output. This is especially annoying when your ouput is something other than HTML. For example an empty line infront of an XML file will cause any consuming program to choke on it, since the XML declaration *must* be the first line.

I omit the closing scripttag, as most others do.