Let's keep DRY
==

If we look at our frontcontroller and our actions we'll see three very similar 
lines asking for information from $_GET. We'll extract that into a function this will also help us remember that some parameters might not be set.
Create a new folder library with a file `Request.php` in it. The library folder
will hold all our functions. The Request.php will hold the functions for accessing
the request variables. In `Request.php` create the following function

    <?php 
    function getRequestParameter($name, $default)
    {    
        $parameter = isset($_GET[$name])?$_GET[$name]:$default;
        return $parameter;
    }

Now replace every access to `$_GET` by this new function.

## Refactoring
Refactoring is the process of restructuring your code, without altering its external behaviour. This restructoring is done with the intent of improving the maintainability and readability of code. Usual goals of refactoring are reducing and reusing. Reusing code, like we did with our new function, ultimatly means that we can reduce lines of code and complexity of other pieces of code.

When we extracted the actions in their own files we improved the complexity of our frontcontroller. It now contains less code which makes it easier to read and understand it. By extracting `getRequestParameter` we made it possible to improve a piece of code in a single function and have al users benefit from it immediatly.

Also it is easier to debug and profile code, when it is broken up in smaller chunks. It is then quite simple to identify the performance sinkholes. 

Refactor - Reduce - Reuse

## DRY

Is there any point in extracting code into functions? Yes the DRY-Principle 
(don't repeat yourself) is one of the core principles of clean code.

Our first function admittedly added another file and five lines of code
to your code. On the other hand your code is now more expressive since the
name of our function expresses our intent clearly. It has now also become 
easier to maintain our code. Why? Well If you must change the way you access
the request variables you now only have to change code in one place.

In fact we should do just that since there is a huge security hole in our framework.
