Accessing the Model
===================

For the sake of simplicity I'll assume you're using a MySQL Database. Now go and
open it and create a new database test with a table user with three columns
name, uname and email. The columns hold the full name, username and email address
respectively. Fill it with a few users.

Now we're going to access the Database, fetch a user by his username and greet him by his full name.

Establish a connection to your Database 

    mysqli_connect($server, $username, $password);

Once we establish the connection we want to Select our user.

    $stmt = 'SELECT * FROM user WHERE uname = '.$uname;

The above statement is a select statement as indicated by the `SELECT` keyword.
It will fetch every column, that's what the star means, from our user table.
Limited to those rows, where the username matches our username.

    $result = mysqli_stmt_fetch( $stmt );
    $user = mysqli_fetch_object($result);

`mysqli_fetch_object` returns the first row of the result as a std-class object. Since the username should be unique, we won't worry about further rows in the result. However if you do have several rows in your result, repeatedly calling `mysqli_fetch_object` will step through all rows.

    while ($user = mysqli_fetch_object($result)) {
        echo $user->name;
    }

The columns of the row are accessible by the `$user->COLUMNAME` notation seen in the above example. This notation is also referred to as member dereference, arrow notation or most commonly as object notation.

## Structured Query Language

SQL (pronounce it "sequel" or spell it out) stands for Structured Query Language and is specified by [SQL92](http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~shadow/sql/sql1992.txt).
Together with HTML, CSS and Javascript it belongs to the list of language that every PHP developer must
know. Depending on whom you ask this list might vary, including more technologies and languages, but these
will always be on that list.

Imagine a database as a collection of tables or spreadsheets. Entries in those tables can be created, retrieved, updated
and deleted (this set of functions is called CRUD) using SQL.

To create our test database you would run the following command

	CREATE DATABASE test;

SQL is case insensitive. So you could've written `create database test;`, commonly
though people write SQL keywords in capitals. This makes it easier to quickly read
the commands.

Before we continue we need to switch to the new Database.

	USE test;
	CREATE TABLE user(
		id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
		name TEXT,
		uname VARCHAR(20),
		email TEXT
	);

That second statement will create a table in your database with four columns.

 - `id` will hold
an integer that will act as a primary key, which means it will be unique to the user, automatically
increase with each new user and therefore is reliable to reference that user.
 - `name` is a textfield with the full name of the user. A textfield can hold, well, a pretty long text
 - `uname` is the username, nick or alias of the user and can consist of up to 20 characters.
 - `email` is a textfield with the email of the user.

Issue the following commands

	INSERT INTO user (name, uname, email)
    VALUES ("Tyrion Lannister", "Imp", "tyrion@example.com");

	INSERT INTO user (name, uname, email)
    VALUES ("Samuell Vimes", "mumm", "lordcommandervimes@example.com");

	INSERT INTO user (name, uname, email)
    VALUES ("Leeloolallung wa Aichetigulaii", "Leeloo", "fifth@example.com");

This will insert three users into your table. since I might not have been clear
on this point. A database holds several tables, each table consists of multiple
columns and rows. In simple cases each column represents one aspect of a set of
information, and each row is a single set of information. In our case each row
is a user and the columns define name, username and so on.

Now to retrieve one or more users.

	SELECT id,name,uname,email FROM user WHERE uname = 'Leeloo';

This select statement will return all columns for the user Leeloo. That is it will
return all rows, where the value in the column uname equals Leeloo.

A quicker way to write this is

	SELECT * FROM user WHERE uname = 'Leeloo';

Although they return the same data, there is a difference in these commands however. The
first command explicitly names the columns, if you add a fifth column that first
command will not return the new column. The second command always returns all columns.

So to only return the full name you would write

	SELECT name FROM user WHERE uname = 'Leeloo';

To get all email addresses except Leeloo's

	SELECT email FROM user WHERE uname != 'Leeloo';

The exclamation mark is often used to negate an expression. In this case it makes the equal mean not equal.

This little introduction to SQL must suffice for now.

Tables can be a lot more complex than this however. See [Learning SQL the Hard Way](http://sql.learncodethehardway.org/book)
for a more thorough introduction into SQL.