More Action
===

Well it would be nice if we could do more than display the username. Let's add more stuff.

We'll pass a new query parameter `action` to our script. Depending on the action we will
either greet our user or show him his profile.

So depending on the `action` parameter we will either greet a user - defined by the `uname` parameter - or display his profile.

Implementing this new action should be fairly easy with what has been introduced up till now. Just use
an if statement to decide which action to use. 

Make sure you have understood everything so far, because the next steps will radically change our code.

Version Control Systems
-

Use one.

Svn and git are the two most popular version control systems (vcs) and they are gratis, free of charge. Both can be set up in a few minutes to work on your local computer or you can choose to use an online service. If you have never used a vcs before you should plan to spend one to two hours until everything is set up and you have your first code commited.

A vcs is a long term memory, a file cabinet, a hub and a safety net. A vcs is a code storage. Developers unfamiliar with vcs systems usually copy directories or create zip-files of different  development stages; instead you can store your code in a vcs by commiting to it. Subsequent changes are also commited to the vcs, which will keep track of the changes for you. This makes it possible to track down a certain change and why it was made; or simply discard code and go back to a previous version. 

<blockquote>
A vcs is better than marriage. So commit early and commit often.
</blockquote>

Since it makes it possible to easily undo changes it gives you the freedom to make mistakes and to try things. After all, you can set your code back to any previous commit.

A vcs becomes irreplacable when working in a team. Store the vcs in a central location, where every developer has access to it. Now everyone has easy access to your code and can manipulate it and write it back to the vcs, where other developers can access it. So a vcs makes it possible for a team to work on the same code simultaniously. There will never be a question, where the most up to date code can be found. Code won't dissapear, when someone leaves the team.

Knowing what a vcs is and how to use one is one of the skills that are expected of a serious developer.